.\" Manpage for quark
.TH QUARK 1 "April 2017" "0.0.1" "User Manual"
.SH NAME
.B quark
\- the editor the world doesn't need
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B quark 
[project root] [file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B quark 
is a simple and lightweight editor with a clean interface.
.SH EDITING
Basic editing and navigation is vary staightforward: Move around with the
normal cursor movement keys and enter text at the current cursor position by 
typing characters. Various commands are available using modifier keys as 
outlined in the next section.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B New buffer [Ctrl+N]
Opens an empty buffer
.TP
.B Open file [Ctrl+O]
Open a file in a new buffer. Prompt for the file path. If the file is already 
open in some buffer, move to that buffer instead.
.TP
.B Save file [Ctrl+S]
Save the current buffer. Prompt for the save path.
.TP
.B Close buffer [Ctrl+W]
Close the current buffer. Prompt for saving the buffer it is has unsaved 
changes.
.TP
.B Exit [Ctrl+Q]
Close all buffers and exit. Prompt for saving any buffers that has unsaved
changes.
.B quark.
.TP
.B Previous buffer [Ctrl+LeftArrow]
Move to previous buffer.
.TP
.B Next buffer [Ctrl+RightArrow]
Move to next buffer.
.TP
.B Project tree [Ctrl+T]
Switch focus to the project tree (if the terminal is wide enough to show it).
For more information, see the next section.
.TP
.B Change layout [Ctrl+L]
Switch between UI layouts.
.TP
.B Selection [Shift+(cursor movement key)]
Move the cursor without updating the selection cursor.
.I <PgUp>
and
.I <PgDn>
replaces
.I <ArrowUp>
and
.I <ArrowDown>
in this context for NCurses reasons.
.TP
.B Select All [Ctrl+A]
Select all text in the buffer.
.TP
.B Cut [Ctrl+X]
Cut the currently selected text, placing it in the system clipboard.
.TP 
.B Copy [Ctrl+C]
Copy the currently selected text to the system clipboard.
.TP
.B Paste [Ctrl+V]
Paste text from the system clipboard.
.TP
.B Undo [Ctrl+Z]
Undo the most recent edit.
.TP
.B Redo [Ctrl+Y]
Redo a previously undone edit.
.TP
.B Find [Ctrl+F]
Find the next occurence of a string in the buffer.
.TP
.B Find next [F3]
Jump to the next occurence of the previously searched string.
.TP
.B Find previous [F2]
.TP
.B Replace [Ctrl+R]
Find the next occurence of a string and replace it with another string.
.TP
.B Replace next [Shift+F3]
Find the next occurence of the previously serched string and replace it.
.TP
.B Replace previous [Shift+F2]
Find the previous occurence of the previously searched string and replace it.
.SH PROJECT TREE
If the terminal is wide enough, \fBquark \fRwill show a project tree on the
left hand side. Move up and down the tree with the normal cursor movement keys.
Expand and contract directories with \fI<RightArrow> \fRand \fI<LeftArrow>
\fRrespectively. \fI<Return> \fROpens a file or expands a directory. The plus 
key (\fI+\fR) sets a currently highlighted directory as project root while 
minus (\fI\-\fR) sets it's parent as project root. \fI<Esc> \fRreturns focus to
the editor.
.SH PROMPTS
A number of commands will prompt for additional information as described above.
Tab completion is available for commands that prompt for a path. \fI<Esc> \fR
escapes the prompt and cancels the command.
.\" .SH OPTIONS
.\" .B quark 
.\" does not take any options.
.SH BUGS
In xterm-256color environments, some special keys like arrow keys are handled
incorrectly immediately after terminal resize.
.SH AUTHOR
Stefan Peterson (stefan.j.peterson@gmail.com)
